1. what is kernel?
Ans:- is the core operating system
2. what is shell?
Ans:- shell is interpreter that executes commands typed as string(ex: bash,csh,ksh...)
3. what is prompt?
Ans:- is the visual que that indicates an interactive shell is waiting for the user to type a command
4. command?
 Ans:- is the name of the program to run
5. option?
Ans:- is part of the command line that adjusts the behaviour of a command
6. what is argument?
Ans:- describes the part of the command line that specifies the target that the command should operate
7. what is terminal?
Ans:- is the hardware display and keyboar used to interact with a system.that provieds display for o/p and keyboard for i/p to a shell session
8. what is the console?
Ans:- is the one of multiple login console that can support an independent login shell.
9. what is file?
Ans:- file is the collection od data
  NOTE:in linux every thing is a file
10. what is path? types of path?
Ans:- used to recognise the perticular file/directory in a file system
     1)absoulte path:--> cd /home/cdn/nw1/nw2
     2)relative pathe:--> cd nw1/nw2
11. what is file system?
Ans:- the heirarchical arrangement of files and directories is know as file sysetm
12. what max number of character of a file?
Ans:- 255
13. what is process?
Ans:-is program in exection(running) is called process
14.expand pts?        
Ans:- psedo terminal slave
15. expand tty?
Ans:- tele type
16. what is pipe?
Ans:-output of one command is redirected into input of another command is know as pipe
17. cut command?
Ans:- used to extract file contents based on delemeter
NOTE: the default internal field seperator is sapce in linux
18. Regular expresion?(grep)
Ans:- used to search content in the file
19. what is physical volume?
Ans:- it is a blockdevice such as partition or whole device
20. what is volume group?
Ans:- one or more pv's grouped into volume group
21. what is logical volume ?
Ans:- in lvm a volume group is devided into logical volumes
22. what is swap space?
Ans:- swap space is a secondary storage area  for over commited memory
23. what is striping?
Ans:- it is done by chopping data into pices & each pices of data is writting into different pvs.
24. what is mirrored logical volume?
Ans:- it maintains identical copies on different pvs,where the data is written in one device is also written in second device as well.
25. what is linear logical volume?
Ans:- linear logical volume aggregates space from one or more pv's into one volume.
26. what is snapshot?
Ans:- it captures the modified data
27. what is epoch days?
Ans:- the days elapsed since jan 1st 1970 till now is called epoch days
28. what is umask?
Ans:- it is command restric the permission given from the kernel(system).
29. what is major number?
Ans:- it identifies device driver.
30. what is mainer number?
Ans:- it identifices device by itself.
31. what is super block?
Ans:- super block contines entire information about file system.
32. what is inode?
Ans:- it is a data structure it containes file information.
33. what is inode bit map?
Ans:- it is used to keep the track of all allocated and free inodes .
34. what is data bit map?
Ans:- it contines information whether the data block is free or not.
35. what is hard linked?
Ans:- more than one files can refered by the same inode number and these files said to be hardlinked each other
36. what is softlink?
Ans:- A softlink is a file which contains the name of the other file it is also called as symbolic or symlink.
37. what is raid?
Ans:- Multiple hard drives are grouped together to form a single logical volume.
38. what is pwck?
Ans:- to check the consistancy of the password in linux
39. what is usrck?
Ans:- to check the consistancy of password in AIX
40. why we use filesystem?
Ans:- to give certain pattern to the disk for inserting data
41. what is meta data?
Ans:- Data about data
42. What is sudo
A. sudo allows the system administration to give certain users the ability to run all commands to as a root.
43. what is device driver?
A. device dirver is software in the kernal it controls the activety on port, the format of data is sent to the devices.
44.what is port?  
A. the physical connector in the system where physical devices are attached,and most port programable by the system software.
45. what is demon?
A . DEAMON is a process that is continously running in the back ground.
46. what is the first process that is created in process manager?
A. system D [DEAMON] , ITS pID =1
47.what is thread?
A. thread is a light weight process .and its operats in same address space.
48.how will you bring the jobs to the fore ground that are running in background?
A. [fg job.no]
49.what is the rang of the nice numbers?
A. in b/w {-20 to +19}.

50.what is Processor Affinity ? 
A.Incase of multiple CPUs and multiprogramming environment, the processor swich over multiple program in round robin fashion. The pre-empted job will be scheduled with previously allocated CPU for better performance. The is known as processor affinity.

51.Zombie or Defunct process:-
A. A child process signals its parent as it exits. All resources except for the process identity(PID) are released. This is known as zombie state of a process.

  
expantions:
----------
chsh - change shell
uuid - universal unique identifier
guid - global unique identifier
MBR - master boot record
GPT - guid partion table
RAID - redundant array of independent disks
lsblk - list of blocks
blkid - block id's
SCSI - simple computer system interface
lsscsi - scsi list
LVM - logical volume manager
tmpfs - temporary file system
 